Dr ashra is the Ministry of Health
spokesman in Gaza in a news conference
he said the death toll is expected to
rise four complete hospitals are out of
service for being directly hit Al Han Al
alarama and the international
Opthalmology Hospital hospitals and
medical
facilities across Gaza strips amid the
huge influx of dead bodies and injured
persons due to the is massacres
perpetrated by the Israeli occupation
forces led
to the fact that all the remaining
functioning facilities are operating at
150%
capacities let's bring in Palestinian
journalist Han abua he joins us from KH
unun in the Gaza strip so hany tell us
how the killings particularly of seven
children from the bakri family how's it
reverberating there in
Gaza yes Sammy there is a lot of
frustration right now among Palestinians
as de is a growing concern that uh there
is no safer place in Gaza and everybody
starts to worry about their their family
members their loved ones and their
children um let me tell you Sami I
walked through the corridor of the
hospital and I I I had a a brief chat
with some of the parents who who just
are very very angry and frustrated and
and directly uh and and saying that it
just Israel is at war with its children
Israel is not at war with whatever goal
whatever they wanted to achieve whatever
they they designated as as militants
that they wanted to Target what's a
clear from the incoming large number of
casualties and and large percentage of
them
made of it children it just it just it
makes it impossible to believe the
Israeli narrative at this point but the
um overall uh there is a sense of a
frustration yet people are concerned
they are worried there is fear
everywhere that this might be your last
minute walking into your house because
you don't know most of the residentials
home targeted across the Gaza Strip are
targeted without a warning so basically
we're talking about entire
buildings falling on the heads of of
people inside of them if you are not
killed by the bombs you're likely to get
killed by the heavyweight of the
concrete and steel of that
building hany we also heard from
Ministry of Health officials that
hospitals are going out of service what
does that mean now for gazans who are
injured in those Israeli air strikes
yes yes Sammy what it what it really
means is that most hospitals in Gaza
they already there already five Hospital
of service uh technically we're talking
about entire buildings and facilities
are turning into a graveyard P because
they're not functioning or operating
properly lack of the fuels and
electricity and medical supplies just
turn these large buildings into large
morgs basically and just as we speak
um at exactly uh at 220 as we were
preparing for for this report a massive
explosion Was Heard near the vicinity of
the hospital where we are reporting it
from the target was a residential home
in Al AML neighborhood West line of Han
yunas five people reported killed at the
spot three of them are children under
the age of five and there are more than
35 injuries brought to nther hospital
the hospital is already running out of
essential needs at the moment and
pushing a very critical emergency
schedule of 1 hour on 1 hour off just to
sustain whatever lift of the fuel to
keep one generator an entire hospital
with um operation rooms an emergency
department running on one uh power
generators at the moment we are looking
into a a catastrophic human
crisis in Gaza hospitals very very soon
and unless the borders are open and and
Convoy of humanitarian AIDS are allowed
into
Gaza and hany the question on the minds
of many people this talk about an
agreement to get Aid in through Rafa you
are in Rafa today any indication of when
that Aid might come
[Music]
in just to point out this ambulance is
rushing it from a bombing side what it
means if the if the ambulance if the
ambulance is doesn't stop at the
emergency department it means it it's
carrying a dead body and that number of
people after the ambulance they are
running after their family member who
have been pronounced killed uh and this
is the scene from from the hospital
speaking of RAF Crossing uh we we were
at the at the Crossing earlier this
morning as we anticipated uh the opening
of The Crossing in front of the the 20
trucks on the Egyptian side uh we were
told later on by some of the The
Crossing admin Personnel that they were
not uh they were not told of any sort of
opening today we are looking into
tomorrow it might be the case but we all
know that the opening the decision to
open the borders is is conditional to an
Israeli approval the Israeli Prime
Minister so far is cataloging a list of
the preconditions and one one major
precondition is the is the guarantee
that none of these uh humanitarian Aid
reach to any Hamas member and as of as
of this moment we don't have a
confirmation whether the The Crossing
will open tomorrow or not whether these
20 trucks will be allowed or not but in
the middle of this there is an intensive
literally an intensive air strikes
campaign in every corner of the Gaza
Strip all right we'll leave it there
thanks so much Han
Aba